---
layout: post
title: MDS Capstone project - Fresh Prep weekly orders prediction 
---
<div align="justify">  
For my Capstone project, I collaborated with <a href="https://github.com/hfboyce">Hayley Boyce</a>, <a href="https://github.com/ksm45">Maninder Kohli</a> and <a href="https://github.com/rachelkriggs">Rachel K. Riggs</a> to help improve <a href="https://www.freshprep.ca/">Fresh Prep’s</a> weekly orders prediction accuracy. In this post, I summarize our work and the lessons learnt. Due to NDA restrictions, I do not include any confidential information such as descriptive statistics.
</div>  
<br>

<div align="justify">  
  
**Project Background**

Fresh Prep is a Vancouver-based meal kit delivery company that strives to help their customers cook quick and healthy dinners. They offer a weekly rotating menu with 10 recipes and are committed to sustainability.

A Fresh Prep customer has a status of either _active_ or _paused_. Orders are automatically generated for all customers regardless of status; however, for paused customers these orders are also automatically skipped. Our goal therefore was to determine which active status customers take action to opt-out as well as which paused customers take action to opt-in.

To answer our main question: **How many orders are expected in the upcoming weeks?** , we answered a slightly harder question: **which customers will be ordering in the upcoming weeks?** .
Answering the latter question not only provides Fresh Prep with the number of orders predicted for a given week, but also allows them to target undecided customers. 

Overall, our work was focused in three main areas:
- Analyze customer behavior to reveal patterns and trends
- Improve weekly orders prediction accuracy
- Build an interactive Tableau dashboard that displays predictions and client information
</div> 
<br>

<div align="justify"> 
  
**[Exploratory Data Analysis](https://towardsdatascience.com/exploring-exploratory-data-analysis-1aa72908a5df) (EDA)** 

The raw data was stored in a large PostgreSQL database consisting of many tables. It took our team time throughout the course of the project to create a clean, workable and consolidated file. Understanding the data was key to our success. Below are some of the insights we uncovered: 

-	Active and Paused customers have significantly different billed order rates
-	Customers have a tendency towards their same behaviour from the previous week
-	Active customers plan further out than paused customers do 
-	The customers with the most dietary restrictions (7 or 8) are _less_ likely to skip their orders
-	Customers who customize their orders most frequently (over 80%) skip their orders _more_ than those with customizations rates between 20-80%

These insights guided our feature selection and engineering 


<br>

</div> 

<div align="justify"> 

</div> 

